docs/pages/usage/execution.md, before:

---
title: Cairo artifacts
---

# Executing cairo program to obtain execution trace, memory, and AIR inputs

### Installing corelib

**1.** First you need to clone de Cairo repository:
```bash
git clone --depth=1 -b v2.8.0 https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo.git
```

**2.** Second, you have to move the corelib from the cloned repository to your current path.
```bash
mv cairo/corelib/ .
```

**3.** Finally, remove the cloned repository:
```bash
rm -rf cairo/
```

### Installing cairo1-run
- TODO
### Running cairo1-run in a Scarb project
- TODO

### Running cairo1-run in a Scarb workspace (Sierra file)

As cairo1-run skips gas checks when running, you will need to add the following to your Scarb.toml to ensure that compilation is done without adding gas checks:

```toml
[cairo]
enable-gas = false
```

Then you can compile your project with `scarb build`

Then run the compiled project's sierra file located at `project_name/target/project_name.sierra.json`:

```bash
  cargo run path-to-project/target/project_name.sierra.json 
```


### CLI argument list

The cairo1-run cli supports the following optional arguments:

* `--layout all_cairo`: Sets the layout for the cairo_run. This will limit the available builtins. The deafult layout is `plain`, which has no builtins. For general purpose, the `all_cairo` layout contains all currently available builtins.

* `--args <ARGUMENTS>`: Receives the arguments to be passed to the program's main function. Receives whitespace-separated values which can be numbers or arrays, with arrays consisting of whitespace-separated numbers wrapped between brackets

* `--args_file <FILENAME>`: Receives the name of the file from where arguments should be read. Expects the same argument format of the `--args` flag. Should be used if the list of arguments exceeds the shell's capacity.

* `--trace_file <TRACE_FILE>`: Receives the name of a file and outputs the relocated trace into it

* `--memory_file <MEMORY_FILE>`: Receives the name of a file and outputs the relocated memory into it

* `--proof_mode`: Runs the program in proof_mode. Only allows `Array<felt252>` as return and input value.

* `--air_public_input <AIR_PUBLIC_INPUT>`: Receives the name of a file and outputs the AIR public inputs into it. Can only be used if proof_mode is also enabled.

* `--air_private_input <AIR_PRIVATE_INPUT>`: Receives the name of a file and outputs the AIR private inputs into it. Can only be used if proof_mode, trace_file & memory_file are also enabled.

* `--cairo_pie_output <CAIRO_PIE_OUTPUT>`: Receives the name of a file and outputs the Cairo PIE into it. Can only be used if proof_mode, is not enabled.

* `--append_return_values`: Adds extra instructions to the program in order to append the return and input values to the output builtin's segment. This is the default behaviour for proof_mode. Only allows `Array<felt252>` as return and input value.

Commit message:

Adding instructions to install rust

docs/pages/usage/execution.md, after:

---
title: Cairo artifacts
---

# Executing cairo program to obtain execution trace, memory, and AIR inputs

### Installing Rust

In order to run the program you need to install Rust. Follow the instructions on the official website [here](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install).

### Installing corelib

**1.** First you need to clone de Cairo repository:
```bash
git clone --depth=1 -b v2.8.0 https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo.git
```

**2.** Second, you have to move the corelib from the cloned repository to your current path.
```bash
mv cairo/corelib/ .
```

**3.** Finally, remove the cloned repository:
```bash
rm -rf cairo/
```

### Installing cairo1-run
- TODO
### Running cairo1-run in a Scarb project
- TODO

### Running cairo1-run in a Scarb workspace (Sierra file)

As cairo1-run skips gas checks when running, you will need to add the following to your Scarb.toml to ensure that compilation is done without adding gas checks:

```toml
[cairo]
enable-gas = false
```

Then you can compile your project with `scarb build`

Then run the compiled project's sierra file located at `project_name/target/project_name.sierra.json`:

```bash
  cargo run path-to-project/target/project_name.sierra.json 
```


### CLI argument list

The cairo1-run cli supports the following optional arguments:

* `--layout all_cairo`: Sets the layout for the cairo_run. This will limit the available builtins. The deafult layout is `plain`, which has no builtins. For general purpose, the `all_cairo` layout contains all currently available builtins.

* `--args <ARGUMENTS>`: Receives the arguments to be passed to the program's main function. Receives whitespace-separated values which can be numbers or arrays, with arrays consisting of whitespace-separated numbers wrapped between brackets

* `--args_file <FILENAME>`: Receives the name of the file from where arguments should be read. Expects the same argument format of the `--args` flag. Should be used if the list of arguments exceeds the shell's capacity.

* `--trace_file <TRACE_FILE>`: Receives the name of a file and outputs the relocated trace into it

* `--memory_file <MEMORY_FILE>`: Receives the name of a file and outputs the relocated memory into it

* `--proof_mode`: Runs the program in proof_mode. Only allows `Array<felt252>` as return and input value.

* `--air_public_input <AIR_PUBLIC_INPUT>`: Receives the name of a file and outputs the AIR public inputs into it. Can only be used if proof_mode is also enabled.

* `--air_private_input <AIR_PRIVATE_INPUT>`: Receives the name of a file and outputs the AIR private inputs into it. Can only be used if proof_mode, trace_file & memory_file are also enabled.

* `--cairo_pie_output <CAIRO_PIE_OUTPUT>`: Receives the name of a file and outputs the Cairo PIE into it. Can only be used if proof_mode, is not enabled.

* `--append_return_values`: Adds extra instructions to the program in order to append the return and input values to the output builtin's segment. This is the default behaviour for proof_mode. Only allows `Array<felt252>` as return and input value.
